---
layout: page
title: Modules
permalink: /modules/
---


**Module 1 -   Identify Machine Generated Domain Names

The purpose of detecting algorithmically generated domain names is to discover whether the domain names are potentially generated by malware or not. Domain names are series of text strings consisted of alphabets, numbers and dash signs. Thus, classification in machine learning would help in DGA domains detection. In this tutorial, we will provide sample data sets and programs for analyzing the domain name data. The tutorial aims to be an introduction to manipulate and analyze domain name data and then classify domain names into legitimate domains and DGA domains using supervised machine learning classifiers such as Support Vector Machines (SVM) and Random Forest.

Domain Name Data Set: Legitimate domains (labeled as negative cases) are collected from the Alexa list of top web sites. The Alexa Top Sites web service provides access to a list of web sites ordered by Alexa Traffic Rank. We collected about one million entries from Alexa’s list on September, 2017.

DGA domain data is collected from the DataDrivenSecurity website. These DGA domains are from recent botnets including “Cryptolocker”, two separate “Game-Over Zeus” algorithms, and an anonymous collection of algorithmically generated domains. In total, there are 52,665 entries DGA domains in this data set. In this tutorial, we will use 1000 DGA domains randomly selected from this data set for the analysis.

A 18-page tutorial was prepared to instruct students to train an SVM based model to detect machine generated domain names. 
Please download the tutorial and the dataset.



**Module 2 – Fraud Detection Analysis

Online transactions dataset: For this module, we modified a readily available dataset to promote answering open ended question with analytics. Specificely, we used UCSD DataMining Contest 2009 Dataset that was downloaded from https://www.cs.purdue.edu/commugrate/data/credit_card/. Online transactions dataset simulates credit card transactions of an e-commerce website. 

Customers: Second we prepared a “customers” dataset derived from the transactions. This dataset aggregates the transactional data at the customer level. 

A 20-page tutorial was prepared to instruct students to explore the dataset using visualization. 
Please download the tutorial and the dataset.



**Module 3 – Image Manipulation Detection

Twitter Dataset: Face Swap images were downloaded from Twitter searching from hashtags like #FaceSwap that indicates the image suffered some kind of manipulation. The Celebrity Face Dataset is a free public dataset that contains face images without any manipulation. There are 2546 images in total; 1039 images are non-manipulated and 1507 are manipulated. Below are some examples from each category.

Doctored Images Dataset:  This dataset consists of a series of more general images than face images in dataset 1. There are 566 original images collected from a varying number of situations, and they form category one: Original dataset. Each of these images was manipulated using some image editing tools like photoshop, and they form category two: Doctored dataset. The purpose of collecting dataset 2 is to test how deep learning models can detect manipulated images from more general situations.

A 16-page tutorial was created to instruct students to train and test a convolutional neural network (CNN) for detecting manipulated images 
Please download the tutorial and the dataset.
